What's New 92 - Added Chromium items (#1310)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2021/05/devtools.md

For more information, navigate to [Using the tools][GithubIoDevToolsUsing].

## Announcements from the Chromium project

[!INCLUDE [contact DevTools team note](../../includes/chromium-whats-new-note.md)]

### CSS Grid editor

You can now preview and author CSS Grid layouts, using the new CSS Grid editor.

When an HTML element on your page has `display: grid` or `display: inline-grid` applied to it, a grid icon is displayed next to it in the **Styles** tab. Click the grid icon to display or hide the CSS grid editor. In the CSS grid editor, select any of the icons (such as `justify-content: space-around`) to preview the layout in the rendered page.  Flex layout works similarly.

:::image type="complex" source="../../media/2021/05/css-grid-editor.msft.png" alt-text="CSS Grid editor" lightbox="../../media/2021/05/css-grid-editor.msft.png":::
   CSS Grid editor
:::image-end:::

<!-- screenshot uses https://jec.fyi -->

To review the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, navigate to Issue [1203241][CR1203241].

### Support for const redeclarations in the Console

> The Console now supports redeclaration of `const` variables within a given REPL script (a series of statements entered as a group), in addition to the existing `let` and `class` redeclarations. The inability to redeclare `const` variables was a common annoyance for web developers who use the Console to experiment with new JavaScript code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Console now supports redeclaration of `const` variables across separate REPL scripts (like when you run a statement in the Console), in addition to the existing `let` and `class` redeclarations.
```

I would just merge the next paragraph with this one as well.

> This support for redeclaration of `const` variables allows yet to paste code into the DevTools console to see how it works.  You can experiment, making small changes to the code, and repeat the process without refreshing the page.  Previously, DevTools threw a syntax error if the code redeclared a `const` binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This support allows you to experiment with different declarations for `const` variables without refreshing the page. Previously, DevTools threw a syntax error if you redeclared a `const` binding.
```

   Redeclaring a const variable is allowed in the console
:::image-end:::

<!-- screenshot uses https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/intersectionobserver but could use any page, or no page -->

For example, to produce the results shown in the previous screenshot:

1.  In DevTools version 92 or later, in the **Console**, enter the following statement and then select `Enter`.

    ```javascript
    const a = 'declare';
    ```
    
1.  Enter the following statement and then select `Enter`.  This is a separate REPL script, independent from the above script, so no error message appears.

    ```javascript
    const a = 'redeclare';
    ```
    
1.  Enter both of the following statements as a single REPL script.  To do this, either copy and paste the following code listing into the **Console**, or type the first statement followed by `Shift`+`Enter` and then type the second statement followed by `Enter`.  The const variable is redeclared within the same REPL script, so now an error message appears.

    ```javascript
    const b = 'declare';
    const b = 'no redeclaration on same REPL script';

>     ```

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this whole bit. I prefer conciseness within individual announcements. We could always say something like:

```markdown
To learn how to run a single REPL script or a multi-line REPL script, navigate to [The Console as a JavaScript environment](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/console/console-javascript).
```

:::image type="complex" source="../../media/2021/05/show-iframe-details-application-tool.msft.png" alt-text="Frame details in the Application tool" lightbox="../../media/2021/05/show-iframe-details-application-tool.msft.png":::
   Frame details in the **Application** tool
:::image-end:::

<!-- demo page: https://wolfib.github.io/web-demos/ esp https://wolfib.github.io/web-demos/jsIframe.html -->

To review the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, navigate to Issue [1192084][CR1192084].

### Enhanced CORS debugging support

Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) errors are now surfaced in the **Issues** tab.  There are various potential causes of CORS errors.  Click to expand each issue to understand the potential causes and solutions.

:::image type="complex" source="../../media/2021/05/cors-debugging-support.msft.png" alt-text="CORS issues in the Issues tab" lightbox="../../media/2021/05/cors-debugging-support.msft.png":::
   CORS issues in the Issues tab
:::image-end:::

<!-- screenshot uses http://cors-errors.glitch.me -->

To review the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, navigate to Issue [1141824][CR1141824].

> ### Renamed XHR label to Fetch\/XHR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Renamed XHR filter to Fetch\/XHR
```

Maybe for consistency of what these "labels" do, we should just call them "filter" instead. Selecting them filters the Network Activity Log down to only those that match the selected filter.

> In the **Network** tool, the **XHR** label is now renamed to **Fetch/XHR**. This change makes it clearer that this filter includes both `XMLHttpRequest` and `Fetch` API network requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Network** tool, the **XHR** filter is now renamed to **Fetch/XHR**. This change makes it clearer that this filter includes both `XMLHttpRequest` and `Fetch` API network requests.
```

:::image type="complex" source="../../media/2021/05/fetch-xhr.msft.png" alt-text="The Network tool now shows Fetch/XHR instead of XHR" lightbox="../../media/2021/05/fetch-xhr.msft.png":::
   The **Network** tool now shows **Fetch/XHR** instead of **XHR**
:::image-end:::

For more information, navigate to:
*  [XMLHttpRequest spec][XhrSpecWhatwgOrg]
*  [Fetch spec][FetchSpecWhatwgOrg]

To review the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, navigate to Issue [1201398][CR1201398].

### Filter Wasm resource type in the Network tool

> In the **Network** tool, you can now select the new **Wasm** button to filter the WebAssembly network requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Network** tool, you can now select the new **Wasm** filter to filter the WebAssembly network requests.
```

:::image type="complex" source="../../media/2021/05/wasm-network-requests.msft.png" alt-text="Filter by Wasm" lightbox="../../media/2021/05/wasm-network-requests.msft.png":::
   Filter by Wasm
:::image-end:::

<!-- screenshot uses http://memory-inspector.glitch.me/demo-wasm.html -->

To review the history of this feature in the Chromium open-source project, navigate to Issue [1103638][CR1103638].

### Compute Intersections are now included in the Performance tool

In the **Performance** tool, DevTools now displays **Compute Intersections** in the flame chart. These changes help you identify intersection observers events and debug the potential performance overhead of intersection observers.

:::image type="complex" source="../../media/2021/05/compute-intersections-in-perf-tool.msft.png" alt-text="Compute Intersections in the Performance tool" lightbox="../../media/2021/05/compute-intersections-in-perf-tool.msft.png":::
   Compute Intersections in the **Performance** tool
:::image-end:::

<!-- screenshot uses https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/intersectionobserver -->

> For more about intersection observers, navigate to [Trust is good, observation is better: Intersection Observer v2][WebDevIntersectionObserverV2].

Reviewer: Instead of having these as 3 separate lines, can we just merge them all into one paragraph?
